<section id="test">

# Salt March
Mahatma Gandhi dedicated much of his life to the pursuit of equality of treatment between the British and Indians living in India. In that pursuit he believed India must have independent and local governance in order to ever achieve that equality. Holding non-violence as a core principle to always be upheld in the pursuit of home rule Mahatma Gandhi and his supporters utilized a number of tactics routed in civil disobedience, the act of refusing to obey the government’s demands.

The British held control over India with law and with economic exploitation. By siphoning economic output out of Indian hands and into the hands of the British empire the people of India were reliant on British control industries for their survival ([British Cotton Piece Exports India, 3](https://www-jstor-org.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/stable/2595062?seq=3#metadata_info_tab_contents)). Gandhi knew that this reliance must be broken in order to mount any revolt. He personally took on the role of leading the civil disobedience by strategically opposing certain laws and compelling others to do as well. In 1921, Gandhi began spinning his own cotton in an attempt to disobey the British law in India against both creating cotton products and purchasing cotton products from non-British corporations ([Knickers in a twist; Cotton exports](https://search-proquest-com.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/docview/927580579?pq-origsite=summon&accountid=14771)). And in 1930 he took on the British monopoly on salt. “Britain’s Salt Act of 1882 prohibited Indians from collecting or selling salt, a staple in their diet” ([History.com](https://www.history.com/topics/india/salt-march)). In an attempt to create the greatest symbolic and financial impact upon the British monarchy Gandhi, with the support of the Congress party, organized the march from Gandhi’s ashram, a religious retreat, to the town of Dandi on the coast of the Indian ocean. This march was set to take 24 days, with 10 miles traversed every day, concluding with the marchers walking into the Indian ocean and taking the crystalized salt that laid on the beaches ([Dandi March, 2](https://www-jstor-org.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/stable/4416456?pq-origsite=summon&seq=2#metadata_info_tab_contents)).
</section>
